---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E1: UI Basics Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2023-09-11
published: true
labels:
  - WODs
---
WODs 3.1, 3.2, 3.3

I was able to complete BrowserHistory1 in 14 minutes for my final run, which I believe I did fine. The first couple of times I attempted this, it took me much longer. However, after some retries, my understanding of what worked and what did not work grew. Compared to WOD 3.2 and 3.3, this was more time-consuming as I had to identify and place the two different heading styles and assign the paragraph to the texts. There are different sections of the code that require various inputs, so I often run into mistakes by jumping around. Therefore, I would have reattempted this WOD less often if I had gone at a much slower pace but with more consistency. I personally found it useful to check whether the code I just put in worked by saving my file and checking if the browser content actually showed the changes. If not, I can instantly see what code I need to focus on right away that needs a little bit of fixing to get the code translated well onto the browser.

BrowserHistory2 is the fastest one I finished out of the other 2. I was able to recall how to create a stylesheet in Lab2, which helped me to be able to link the style css file to my index file smoothly. Then from there, I utilized Intellisense help to see which coding tags resembled what the instructions were telling me to do based on the given code completion list Intellisense offered. As a result, this allows me to determine the proper tags for font, color, and margin. For the instructions I am struggling with, I refer back to the screencast to put me back in the right direction and go through the approach on my own by recording the whole process over again.

BrowserHistory3 threw me off as there are not a lot of keywords from the instructions that would allow me to utilize Intellisense to suggest the suitable code that creates the three sections on the browser to appear side by side as three columns. At this point, I did not have a foundation to base on, so I reviewed back to the screencast. As I was looking through the codes used, I took note of their functions and looked at w3schools for more details. I would need to catch up on the readings if I encountered this again, as there is a lot to digest, and if I did not fully absorb what the readings were saying, this would easily put me behind like what happened in this WOD.
